RDBMS:

Conceptual Design
Attributes:
   Multi-Value Attributes
   Derived Attributes
Stored Vs Derived Attributes Vs Null Value
   Derived as Current Age from dob and current date for a person
Entity Type: Department, has multiple departments of same structure
Entity Set: Collection of entities of particular Type
Key Attributes: Can have any number of keys
  A ket that is unique for each Department in an entity set
  Composite Key: Should be minimal i.e. No Subset of a key to be key itself.eg: Dept Id + name is not minimal hence not a composite key
EER Model?
Some entities without any key attribute: Called weak entity
Domain of attribute: Set of valid values the attribute can attain
Daomain of attribuute: D1*D2*D3 for subattributes of domain D1, D2( Cartesian Product)

Relation between two entity tyoes and define a relationship set
tye of relations: Uniary, Binary, Ternary
RelationShips in RDBMS Or Object Oriented Databases.

Constraints:
  Cardinality Ratios: N(Employee)----1(Department)
  Participation Constraint: as equivalent to composition in Java
  Full Participation??Budget allocated to Department and Project relationship and NOT for either Department and Project exclusively.
Identifying relationship Type?????  

Weak Entity: Entity without any key attribute eg: insurance record associated to person
Relationship: Association between Two Entities, Defined by Cardinality Constraints
Identifying Relationship??? Related to Weak Entity Type

EER(Enhaned Entity RelationShip)
Inheritence: IS_A relationship i.e. Class B is a Specilization of class of type A
as Car is a Vehicle.
Subclasses undergo type Inheritence i.e. memeber of subclass has same attributes as the SuperClass entities and participate in the same relationship type.
means the subclass should be replcable with superclass without changing the semantics/functionlities.like earth to moon example
Also the keys should be same in both super and subclass though subclass can have additional attributes though
Generalization  to Specialization is SuperClass to subClass

Predicate Defined SubClasses: where the subclasses can be differentiated on basis of some attribute called "defining the predicate"
UnionType Or Categories: When the implementation of the generalization is More Abstract as Account in Bank could be in name of individual/Group/family

Higher Order Relationship: The relation ship that cannot be breakDown to binary without loosing the meaning









